packages/Understanding docker.md, before:

# Docker, Dockerfile, Docker registry

## Docker 
   - is a framework/ tool to create containers, deploy and run containerized applications
   - provides CLI to interect with docker daemon (background process that runs the containers)
   - docker is also a container run time (responsible for managing low level details of container creation like ns, cgroups, storage volumes and lifecycle of containers
   - provides high level api for interecting with containers ( start, stop, remove )
   - in AKS, docker is not used anymore as container runtime
   - features to manage and orchestrate containers
   - other softwares that prvide container runtimes are - crio, containerD (AKS)

## Image
- is a snapshot (blueprint, genes, dna/rna)-> to create container
- is a prebuilt bundle of code and its dependencies
- is like a template for creating container

## Container
- is the running instance of an image

## Dockerfile
- is a script that has instructions for building an image
- is a plain text file with series of commands executed in order during image buidling
- usually starts with a base image (with a OS) and then run commands to install softwares, add files and configure the image

## How to inatall Docker
- Docker desktop

## Dockerfile code
```
FROM debian:latest 
RUN apt-get update && apt-get -y install curl
CMD ["sleep", "infinity"]
```
## Command to build docker
```
docker build -t my-curl-image .
```
``` 
. means current dir from where you are i.e., look for Dockerfile in the current dir
```
_-t is a tag to name an image_
## To see the image
```
docker images | grep my-curl-image
```
## To create and run a container from the image we have
```
docker run -d --name my-curl-container my-curl-image
```
_-d is to run in detached mode_
_you can see your container running in docker desktop_

## To get inside a running container
```
docker exec my-curl-container curl microsoft.com -v
```
_-v is verbose; here we get inside the container and execute a commnad_

## To see running containers
_go to docker desktop_
OR
```
docker ps
```
## To get inside a running container with id
```
docker exec -it <id> sh
```
_-it is interective mode. after docker ps, place the id number above_
## To stop the docker container
```
docker stop my-curl-container
```
## To remove the container
```
docker rm my-curl-container
```
## Docker registry
_Docker hub, ghcr, ACR etc.._

Commit message:

docker push
Signed-off-by: Arnab Bordoloi <132011416+arnie-houston@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/Understanding docker.md, after:

# Docker, Dockerfile, Docker registry

## Docker 
   - is a framework/ tool to create containers, deploy and run containerized applications
   - provides CLI to interect with docker daemon (background process that runs the containers)
   - docker is also a container run time (responsible for managing low level details of container creation like ns, cgroups, storage volumes and lifecycle of containers
   - provides high level api for interecting with containers ( start, stop, remove )
   - in AKS, docker is not used anymore as container runtime
   - features to manage and orchestrate containers
   - other softwares that prvide container runtimes are - crio, containerD (AKS)

## Image
- is a snapshot (blueprint, genes, dna/rna)-> to create container
- is a prebuilt bundle of code and its dependencies
- is like a template for creating container

## Container
- is the running instance of an image

## Dockerfile
- is a script that has instructions for building an image
- is a plain text file with series of commands executed in order during image buidling
- usually starts with a base image (with a OS) and then run commands to install softwares, add files and configure the image

## How to inatall Docker
- Docker desktop

## Dockerfile code
```
FROM debian:latest 
RUN apt-get update && apt-get -y install curl
CMD ["sleep", "infinity"]
```
## Command to build docker
```
docker build -t my-curl-image .
```
``` 
. means current dir from where you are i.e., look for Dockerfile in the current dir
```
_-t is a tag to name an image_
## To see the image
```
docker images | grep my-curl-image
```
## To create and run a container from the image we have
```
docker run -d --name my-curl-container my-curl-image
```
_-d is to run in detached mode_
_you can see your container running in docker desktop_

## To get inside a running container
```
docker exec my-curl-container curl microsoft.com -v
```
_-v is verbose; here we get inside the container and execute a commnad_

## To see running containers
_go to docker desktop_
OR
```
docker ps
```
## To get inside a running container with id
```
docker exec -it <id> sh
```
_-it is interective mode. after docker ps, place the id number above_
## To see all images
```
docker images
```
## To remove image
```
docker image rm simpplewebsite
```
## To stop the docker container
```
docker stop my-curl-container
```
## To remove the container
```
docker rm my-curl-container
```
## To tag an image
```
docker tag simplewebsite repo1/simplewebsite:v1
```
_tag image with an new name (with reponame) in it like repo1/simplewebsite:v1_
## Push image to Docker hub
```
docker push repo1/simplewebsite:v1
```
## Docker registry
_Docker hub, ghcr, ACR etc.._
